Fwd: posts on Unix systems programming
This will be the "separate mailing list" mentioned in my original post:

  http://blade.nagaokaut.ac.jp/cgi-bin/scat.rb/ruby/ruby-talk/387469
  Message-ID: <20110906230016.GC12574@dcvr.yhbt.net>

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

I would like to do a series of mailing list posts on the subject of Unix
systems programming in Ruby.  I only intend to cover standardized,
POSIX-compliant features of the standard Ruby distribution.  No
extensions or Linux-only parts.

Is there anybody who would NOT want these posts in ruby-talk?

I could do this on a separate mailing list, but I think it'll be
beneficial to a wider audience in ruby-talk.  I will prefix subjects
with "[USP]" for ease-of-filtering.  I'll start posting in a week or two
if there are no objections.  I'll try to space the posts so they're
several days apart and allow time for questions/clarifications.

I don't consider myself a great writer nor programmer, but several folks
expressed interest in learning this subject to me directly.  I don't
know if anybody else is willing to teach this subject or contribute, but
if I'm to do it, it'll be over my preferred medium: plain-text email[1].

Most people would start a blog/wiki, but I dislike dealing with _any_
browsers/formatting/layout/presentation, so absolutely no
markup/markdown/troff/textile if I'm to do this.  I'm interested in
reader feedback and contributions; and (plain-text, minimally quoted)
email is great for that.  I will not use anything other than plain-text
email to interact with readers/editors/contributors.

I will provide downloadable mbox archives of all posts (and replies).

All of my posts will be licensed under the GPLv3, but code examples will
be all-permissive and reusable freely without attribution.

If anybody wants to take mailing list posts and make a website/wiki or
even publish a book so more people can read it, please do so!  The GPLv3
protects readers who circumvent DRM if distributed in proprietary
formats.  Editorial help to fix/correct things will be greatly
appreciated.

I request (but cannot enforce) my name/likeness NOT be used in promoting
any websites/books/etc...  I do NOT want recognition, so you can (and
are encouraged to) hide/bury my name while respecting the GPL and take
_all_ the credit for making it presentable to a non-mailing-list-reading
audience.  I will not accept any payment/donations/gifts from this, you
can make all the money you can from selling this (the GPL allows it).

All I want from this is more people to understand Unix systems
programming (and to avoid all HTML/browsers/forms while doing it).

Thanks for reading!


[1] - includes 7-bit clean ASCII art that works in any terminal :)

-- 
Eric Wong

